We coded our project on Expo, an open source platform for making universal native apps for Android, IOS, and the web with Javascript and React. We used react native language to code our mobile IOS app. 

To implement our prototype, please download expo go on your mobile device. Set up the react native environment by following the instructions here: https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup. Afterwards, go to Alex’s github repository here https://github.com/alexjin19/Finalv2 and clone our code by running “git clone “Alex’s link in his repository”” in terminal. Run code ., and this should open up our project, FinalV2, in the user’s VSCode space, where they can view our code, as well as use it to run the app on their phones.

To run the app, go to your terminal and change directory to the directory that holds all of the code cloned from Alex’s github repository. Run ls to make sure the directory has the proper files, which should include App.js, app.json, package.json, and several others. Once in this directory, run npm start or yarn run ios, either of which will boot up ‘metro bundler’ on a localhost (in a new tab), which connects our code to ios. Once here, you can either open up an IOS simulator on your computer, which will open up an “iPhone” that you can open Expo Go on directly on your computer, or you can use your own device to open up our app, provided Expo Go is downloaded. If you use your own device, open up your camera roll and scan the QR code on the metro bundler. This will take you directly to Expo Go and open up our app. Sometimes this step takes a few tries. A few things to try should you run into issues opening up the app on Expo Go: type r in terminal to reload the ios simulator, which will take you to a new metro bundler, and redo the steps outlined in this paragraph, or restart Expo Go/re-scan the qr code, on your phone.

Once this is complete, you should be able to interact with our app. To begin recording, simply click “start recording” and say whatever you want (no time limit). When you are done recording audio, click “stop recording”. When you want to hear your audio recording played back to you, click “Play Sound”. Make sure your volume is turned up (we made it so that silent mode does not matter!) and you should be able to hear your audio recording. Note: if you click play sound without creating an audio recording first, an error will pop up at the bottom of the app since a null object cannot be played (no recording). Feel free to make as many recordings as you want! The recordings automatically update to the most recent one whenever start/stop recording is pressed. 

Link to our video: https://youtu.be/COndswJHP3w  